close to the alifa hospital and the
Palestinian Health Ministry is warning
that the hospital is just hours away
from running out of fuel completely well
to talk more about the situation there
is Dr Ahmad malati he's a surgeon at ala
Hospital good to have you with us sir um
how long is it until you run out of fuel
completely thanks we're already running
out of fuel you know what's like last
night everything was in dark we had
nothing open except for the Emergency
Department the icus and the theat but
the main generator is not working I
don't know what the people are do they
know they keep asking the same question
is it going to run out it's it's run out
it's more than a month now that we have
been under this full blockage with
nothing coming in Gaza and there is no
even nothing in just showing that it
will come so the situation is that we
run out of the main supply of fuel what
we run they will call us they said they
have theater because I'm in Bur unit
it's an isolated unit the moment I
finish operating on the bur patients
they just know that around midnight or
something that they just stop the
electricity on the building and they
keep it only for the ICU beds so it's
very critical the situation we reach
it's something that is going to happen
at one point imagine I think around 70
ICU patients on ventilators the UBS we
have won't run more than two or three
hours and then all the ventilators will
just run out and then at one point you
will find all these people with you know
no ventilator so it's like killing you
know all these patients the neonatal ICU
the patients on critical care the
theaters will run off we had a moment
where we have to use our mobile phones
to operate in other hospitals it
happened that even the mobile phones
were the main source of of of light for
the operation so it's very critical
situation we are running out of fuel
there is no Supply coming if not this
hour the next hour if not today will be
early morning so it's happening now it's
not something we are just warning well
have been warning for days and weeks
that this is going to happen and we are
very near to this moment where we will
say okay we run out of these things
everyone will be killed here in this ICU
in the hospital so I just judging that
at least 100 people will be killed
because of the run out of fuel so it's
about 100 people you say are going to be
killed as a result of running out of
fuel how many people are there at the
hospital between both patients and those
trying to seek some sort of Refuge
there so it's not less than 50,000
people in in a shifa hospital around
2,500 will be the patients and then the
others are people coming seeking the you
know the the safe place or assuming the
safe place here so we are talking about
at least 50,000 people here in shifa
hospital and around 200,000 in the whole
hospitals of Gaza where they are relying
on this electricity it's very critical
again you know the water we have been
drinking for the last two weeks I say
it's unhealthy I don't know the taste of
it how does it look like we don't know
if it's healthy unhealthy where it does
it come from but we we never got any
proper fresh you know uh water drinking
water for the last two weeks yesterday
we couldn't get any food from the
hospital sometimes they give us some
meals uh for dinner they told us today
we're not getting any meals in the
hospital we went outside there is no
bread in the hospital the main bakery
near the hospital was bombed with the
solar power and their main tank has been
bombed so it's very critical there is no
food easily available we rely on the
cans the water supply is very minimal
because it's realizing that let me ask
you what happens forgive me for
interrupting you but when fuel is
absolutely critical to this that that
much is is clear when that fuel Runs Out
do you have any options available to you
and the staff about what to do with the
patients who are going to be most
affected by the fuel running
out so we have been already doing this
is I think the government has told all
the petrol stations not to give to sell
any of the petrol so if you go in Gaza I
won't find any Petrol in the stations
because they kept it for the hospitals
and so this was the plan and then again
for the last I think two weeks we have
been on this smaller generator but at
one point even these small generators
they were run out of fuel and then we
will go back to the manual things what
we called ambo bag instead of ventilator
but again the monitors are related to
this the investigations we do the lab
all the machines in the laboratory the
blood bank thing uh everything is Rel to
electricity you can't just get the
people a 100 Year back and just in one
thck that so you will lose everything
it's not like we have a solution for
this it's a very complex thing when I
have the electricity not running here
you can't write down even the no in a
proper way the ventilator machines and
then you have the oxygen supply which is
related to you know there's oxygen pump
in the hospital station which needs
electricity to be run off so the oxygen
won't reach there and then you have the
vacuum machine which is very important
and critical for the patient to do
suction for anything you know in their
respiratory tract or just any plugs
happen so that's needs oxy electricity
as well so it's not there is a magic
solution to solve all these issues
together the laboratory will just fill
up Dr Ahmed MTI we appreciate it we
appreciate of course that you and your
teams are very very busy but we're
grateful to you for talking to us at
this time thank you very much indeed